This directory is for 3.2 Xenix source and binaries running on Tandy
16/6000 type machines, however, many will also run under 3.0 Xenix.  
Most of the files here are level 9 gzipped and it can take one hour or 
longer to gunzip some of them.

This file and the advice posted herein, has been provided by
Stephen Scrivano (sscrivan@nyx.cs.du.edu) so that users will have
an easier time porting software found here and elsewhere.  Feel
free to e-mail me if you have any difficulties in matters concerning
these machines.  Files here with the extension ".gz" or ".tgz/tar.gz"
are "gzipped" or "tar gzipped".  Get gunzip.exe first so you
can take the files directly to your 16/6000 machine for unpacking.
Please make note that when using many of the compression/decompression
utilities (gzip/gunzip included), you must have higher memory on your
system and Xenix 3.2 with /etc/cfg maxmem=512k (or about).  Anytime
you use "cfg", remember to reboot your system so the patch will take
affect on your xenix kernel.  If you ever get a message that says
"killed" you know that your maxmem is not high enough.  Ispell is 
another program that is memory intensive.

3.0 Xenix users have no way of reconfiguring the kernel for higher
memory without the configuration kit from Tandy mentioned below.

For 3.0 Xenix users without the configuration kit, you will have gunzip these 
files on some other machine before downloading them to your own machine.  

If you have no communication software (cu, cu.s3 will not transfer binaries and
is not reliable even for uuencoded files), feel free to contact me so I can 
arrange to get you communication software on disk.

Source deposited here should be compile ready, which means the makefile is 
ready to go when present and all source is correct or appropriate files and 
patches are provided to make it compilable.  When possible, for the benefit of 
Xenix users that don't have the development system containing a C compiler, 
please enclose the binaries in the source packages too or upload them in a 
separate file with the extension ".exe" so they can be easily found.  Always
include complete support files and documentation for anything you upload.

Before you do any compiling, it is important that you first update your 
libraries since many packages here depend on it. You will find several object 
libraries posted here for updating your libraries called "stringlib" and 
"gwynlib".  Compile these two packages and use "ar r *.o /lib/libc.a" to 
install ONLY the following objects and run ranlib on /lib/libc.a when you are 
done):

bcmp.o		getdents.o	memcmp.o	readdir.o	strerror.o
bcopy.o		index.o		memcpy.o	rewinddir.o	strstr.o
bzero.o		memccpy.o	memset.o	rindex.o	telldir.o
closedir.o	memchr.o	opendir.o	seekdir.o

The installation of the "stringlib" package makes porting software upward
compatible since "b!!" functions map to "mem" functions and "rindex/index"
functions map to "strchr/strrchr" without having to define this in your
makefiles.

DO NOT INSTALL ANY OTHER STRING FUNCTIONS found in "stringlib" only strerror
and strstr.  Do install the /usr/include header files in these packages. I
also recommend that you obtain the C-news package (from another site if not
here) and pick through it.  This package contains a wealth of source code
and fakes that you can use to update your libraries.  I advise
creating a /lib/libn.a with the C-news package and install some of the
/usr/include header files in it like stddef.h and stdlib.h.  My /lib/libn.a
contains these object files made from the C-news package and some others:

              dogets.o      fgetmfs.o     getindate.o   qmktime.o
cfgetln.o     efopen.o      fopenexcl.o   hash.o        split.o
closeall.o    emalloc.o     fsync.o       hdbm.o        stdfdopen.o
clsexec.o     error.o       getabsdate.o  mkdir.o       symlink.o
dateconv.o    fgetfln.o     getdate.o     nfclose.o     timestamp.o
datetok.o     fgetline.o    gethostname.o putenv.o      warning.o

Once you update your libraries, things will be much easier.  Xenix was
missing just enough object files as to make life miserable.

For the benefit of those who are interested in obtaining Xenix packages
from Tandy Software Assembly, the following stock #'s and descriptions
are provided below so you can upgrade your systems.  Through you local
Radio Shack store, any sales representative can order these packages
from Tandy Software Assembly for about $7.50 per disk and if you want
manuals, cost of reproduction is extra.

26-6402 03.00.00 Development system.  14 ss disks.  Full distribution.
700-3040 03.02.00 Development system upgrade.  2 ds disks.  Upgrade.
700-3033 03.01.00 Xenix 6000 Configuration Kit.	 Linkable objects for the
kernel.  Information on getting through the z80 is NOT provided, but you
possibly could do a ram-disk driver or pseudo-ttys with the kit.
700-3043 03.02.01 Xenix 6000 Configuration Kit.	 Same as above, but for
03.02.01.  Documentation explains some procedures for kernel tuning. The need
to re-link the kernel is largely replaced by use of /etc/cfg.
700-3039 03.02.00 Most recent Xenix core system
